---
layout: default
title: Provena Release v1.0
nav_order: 1
parent: Provena Release Notes
---

{: .no_toc }

<details  open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
{: .text-delta }
* TOC
{:toc}
____
</details>

# 4 July 2023. Release notes Provena v1.0

Provena was released on the 4th July 2023. Provena is a cloud-based knowledge management system that enables users to register, manage, and publish knowledge artefacts used and generated within a scientific or modelling workflow. It includes a sophisticated provenance capability to capture individual simulation or model run records, their results, and associated data to enable traceability and repeatability. Features include:

**Data store**: Enabling the registration, storage, discovery and access to key datasets via integrated cloud-based platform (AWS S3). 

**Provenance store**: Enables capture, querying and visualisation of provenance information and metadata for modelling and simulation workflows.

**Registry**: Facilitates registration and management of entities and supporting metadata. Items registered in the registry are minted  persistent and resolvable identifiers, which can be used in provenance records. 

**Cloud-based IaC**: Deploy an instance which suits your requirements to your organisation’s AWS account

**API access**: Provena features a set of APIs that powers Provena Web Applications as well as providing users with programmatic access to Provena functionality. This enables access to Provena infrastructure via a user’s coding environment, e.g. Jupyter notebooks.

**Open-source**: Provena is available via an open-source licence (BSD 3-clause) allowing your project to deploy an instance with freedom to operate.

**Theme-able**: Configure and customise a Provena instance with your organisational branding and styling


## Contributors

-   Andrew Freebairn
-   Peter Baker
-   Fareed Mirza
-   Jonathan Yu
-   Linda Thomas
-   Ross Petridis
-   Sharon Tickell
-   Xinyu Hou
-   Omid Rezvani
-   David Lemon

## Citation

CSIRO (2023), Provena Release notes version v1.0,
